readme.md, before:

# Spring PetClinic Sample Application [![Build Status](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/actions/workflows/maven-build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/actions/workflows/maven-build.yml)

This project is a copy of the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic.git modified to be used with GitHub Copilot to learn how to use it.



## Run Petclinic locally

Spring Petclinic is a [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot) application built using [Maven](https://spring.io/guides/gs/maven/) or [Gradle](https://spring.io/guides/gs/gradle/). You can build a jar file and run it from the command line (it should work just as well with Java 17 or newer):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/github-copilot-workshop/copilot-petclinic.git
cd copilot-petclinic
./mvnw package
java -jar target/*.jar
```

You can then access the Petclinic at <http://localhost:8080/>.

Or you can run it from Maven directly using the Spring Boot Maven plugin. If you do this, it will pick up changes that you make in the project immediately (changes to Java source files require a compile as well - most people use an IDE for this):

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```


## Test Applications

At development time we recommend you use the test applications set up as `main()` methods in `PetClinicIntegrationTests` (using the default H2 database and also adding Spring Boot Devtools), `MySqlTestApplication` and `PostgresIntegrationTests`. These are set up so that you can run the apps in your IDE to get fast feedback and also run the same classes as integration tests against the respective database. The MySql integration tests use Testcontainers to start the database in a Docker container, and the Postgres tests use Docker Compose to do the same thing.

## Using GitHub Copilot

The project contains some exercises to learn how to use GitHub Copilot. You can find them in the `docs` folder.

- [Adding new languages _(i18n)_](docs/001-internationalization.md)
- [Creating and Testing REST Services](docs/002-building-a-rest-api.md)
- [Working with SQL](docs/003-working-with-sql.md)
- [Deploying the application](docs/004-deploying-the-application.md)


## License

The Spring PetClinic sample application is released under version 2.0 of the [Apache License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Commit message:

to avoid the java.nio.file.AccessDeniedException: /home/vscode/.m2/wrapper error

readme.md, after:

# Spring PetClinic Sample Application [![Build Status](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/actions/workflows/maven-build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic/actions/workflows/maven-build.yml)

This project is a copy of the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-petclinic.git modified to be used with GitHub Copilot to learn how to use it.



## Run Petclinic locally

Spring Petclinic is a [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot) application built using [Maven](https://spring.io/guides/gs/maven/) or [Gradle](https://spring.io/guides/gs/gradle/). You can build a jar file and run it from the command line (it should work just as well with Java 17 or newer):

> [!WARNING]  
> If you are using Codespaces for this exercise please run `sudo chmod -R 777 /home/vscode/.m2` before you execute the following commands.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/github-copilot-workshop/copilot-petclinic.git
cd copilot-petclinic
./mvnw package
java -jar target/*.jar
```

You can then access the Petclinic at <http://localhost:8080/>.

Or you can run it from Maven directly using the Spring Boot Maven plugin. If you do this, it will pick up changes that you make in the project immediately (changes to Java source files require a compile as well - most people use an IDE for this):

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```


## Test Applications

At development time we recommend you use the test applications set up as `main()` methods in `PetClinicIntegrationTests` (using the default H2 database and also adding Spring Boot Devtools), `MySqlTestApplication` and `PostgresIntegrationTests`. These are set up so that you can run the apps in your IDE to get fast feedback and also run the same classes as integration tests against the respective database. The MySql integration tests use Testcontainers to start the database in a Docker container, and the Postgres tests use Docker Compose to do the same thing.

## Using GitHub Copilot

The project contains some exercises to learn how to use GitHub Copilot. You can find them in the `docs` folder.

- [Adding new languages _(i18n)_](docs/001-internationalization.md)
- [Creating and Testing REST Services](docs/002-building-a-rest-api.md)
- [Working with SQL](docs/003-working-with-sql.md)
- [Deploying the application](docs/004-deploying-the-application.md)


## License

The Spring PetClinic sample application is released under version 2.0 of the [Apache License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
